# Catalyst Authorisation Token (CAT)

```kroki-excalidraw
{{#template ../../../assets/common-diagrams/draft.excalidraw}}
```

The following is a standard for Self Identity proof to be used by Catalyst backend systems.

Several solutions to this problem are already presented:

- [WEB3 Cardano Token](https://github.com/pyropy/web3-cardano-token)
- [Comment to CIP30](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/issues/448)

Neither of these proposed standards seems to fit the requirements of permissionless auth needed for Project Catalyst.

This system of authorization builds on the concepts of [JWT] and [CWT][RFC8392] and standard web security practices.
It allows a dApp and wallet to fully control the authorization process.

Currently, this document describes an authorization flow which is based on HTTP/Rest Only.
Tokens issued by this flow could be used to authorize other connections to the same backend service, such as WebSockets.

## Security Levels

There are three broad categories of security levels recognized within Project Catalyst.

1. Public.
2. Medium Security.
3. High Security.

All APIs within Project Catalyst will receive a security rating from 1 to 3 which aligns with these levels.

### Public

This would be characterised as any access to free public information published by the Catalyst system.
There is no authorization required at this level.
Backend infrastructure will still be protected by standard methods of preventing DoS and other network-based attacks.

### Medium Security

This document describes an Authorization Approach which provides Medium Security authorization.
It trades a slightly lower level of security for a greatly improved User Experience.

While this authorization scheme has been designed to be as secure or better than industry standard OAuth, its use is restricted.

It is only used where there is a high degree of interactivity, or to validate that a user has registered for particular actions.
All interactions authorized at this security should NOT be able to cause any harmful Loss to the client.

Examples of such interactions:

1. Reviewing past voting history for yourself, and your delegated votes.
2. Editing Draft proposals.
3. Editing draft proposal assessments.
4. Adding comments to proposals.

### High Security

This is the highest level of security access.
At this level, EVERY SINGLE interaction that qualifies as HIGH SECURITY needs to be individually signed by the Clients wallet.
This level of security would give these operations the same level of security as transferring ADA on the blockchain.

Examples of such interaction:

1. Signing and Posting votes in a Fund.
2. Placing a final proposal on a challenge for a Fund.
3. Publishing a review on a proposal.

## Requirements

### TLS 1.3 (or better)

The dApp must ensure the connection made to the backend system is over a secure connection which is AT LEAST TLS 1.3.
This ensures the dApp can prove the system it is connected to is the system it expects to connect to.
It also prevents "Man In The Middle" (MITM) attacks from taking place on the network.

While this standard could be used over unprotected links, it is NOT RECOMMENDED that this occur outside of test environments.

## Backend

### "Pre Auth" endpoint

The backend provides a documented and well know "pre-auth" endpoint.

The endpoint can be at any URL defined by the backend API and is not specified here.

An example could be `https://my.dapp.backend.com/api/preauth`.

It is recommended that the pre-auth endpoint should be rate-limited both globally, and per incoming IP address to mitigate abuse.

The pre-auth endpoint will return a `200` response with a content type of `application/cwt`.
The body will be binary data and contain a single [Service Pre-Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).

### Service Pre-Auth Token

Allows a dApp to retrieve validation information from the service prior to constructing a Client Authorization Token.

A Service Pre-Auth token is a standard [CBOR Web Token - RFC8392][RFC8392] with the following claims.
Unless otherwise specified the claims listed here follow [RFC8392]:

- `iss`: The Issuer of this token.
  This is the organization issuing the token.
  - eg,`"https://iog.io/"` or `"IOG"`.
- `sub`: The subject of this token.
  This is the system that will be authorized
  Simple URI Wildcards can be presented which allow the same response to be used for multiple RELATED subdomains.
  - eg, "https://*.dev.projectcatalyst.io".
- `aud`: The Audience of this token.
  This claim *DOES NOT* follow [RFC8392] and is not a URI.
  This *MUST BE* the IPv4 or IPv6 address of the client who called the pre-auth endpoint.
  - eg, `"183.89.53.100"` or `"2345:0425:2CA1::0567:5673:23b5"`.
- `exp`: When this token will expire.
  No client auth token can be generated from this token AFTER this time.
- `nbf`: This claim is *NOT USED* in the pre-auth token, and will not be present.
- `iat`: The date/time of the server when it issued this token.

The pre-auth endpoint signs this with its private key.

### Client Token Validation

#### Http

In an HTTP response, the client will send a [Client Authentication Token](#client-auth-token) in a bearer authorization header.
This *MUST* be included in all requests which require authorization of the client.

The Client Token is encoded with [Base64 URL encoding][BASE64URL].

Example:

```http
Authorization bearer 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
```

#### Client Token Claim Validation

For the Client Token to be valid:

1. `iss` must be as expected.
2. `sub` must be as expected.
3. `aud` must equal the IP src address of the message being authorized.
4. `exp` must NOT be in the past.
5. `nbf` must NOT be present.
6. `iat` must not be in the future by MORE than 60 seconds.
   MUST NOT be in the past more than the maximum duration.
   The maximum duration is EQUAL to the `exp` time duration the backend issues for [Service Pre-Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).
7. Were the claims validly signed?
   1. This is determined by registrations posted to the Cardano blockchain.
   2. The registration must associate a "registration key" with a "stake address key".
   3. Proof that the claims are being presented by the "stake address key" allows access to resources associated with that key.

## Frontend

### Pre Authorization

The client instigates authorization with the backend.
It may do this in response to a 401 or 403 response from the backend, or on request from the client.

Before the client can create its [Client Authentication Token] it needs the data received from the [Service Pre-Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token)

When the response is received, it *MUST* be checked that it was received over a TLS1.3 (Or Greater) connection.
If not, the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token) should be considered compromised.

The client must also validate the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token) according to the following rules:

1. Is the `iss` claim known to the dApp?
2. Is the `sub` claim for the system required to be authorized?
3. Is the `exp` claim in the future?
4. Is the `nbf` claim not present?
5. Is the `iat` claim no older than 1 hour, and not in the future by more than 60 seconds?

If the dApp can validate their public IP address, it can *Optionally* validate `aud` is the expected public IP address of the client.
If this validation can not be done, it does not significantly impact the security of this authorization scheme.
It should be considered an **Enhanced** security check.

If the dApp can validate the signature:

1. Does it validate?
2. Is the public key which validates the signature of the token known to be held by the `iss` claim?

Currently, there is no way to "universally" distribute the public keys needed to validate.
Validation should be considered optional until this is rectified.

Signature validation of the pre-auth token does not significantly reduce the security of this specification.
This is because the token transmission was secured by TLS.
It is included as an "enhanced" security measure.

### Client Auth Token

Allows the dApp to access protected content on a dApp's centralized backends, without storing credentials in the dApp backend.

A Client Auth token is a standard [CBOR Web Token - RFC8392][RFC8392] with the following claims.
Unless otherwise specified the claims listed here follow [RFC8392]:

- `iss`: The Issuer of this token.
  This is the organization issuing the "Pre-Auth" token.
  It is taken *VERBATIM* from the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).
  - eg, `"https://iog.io/"` or `"IOG"`.
- `sub`: The subject of this token.
  This is the system that will be authorized.
  It is taken *VERBATIM* from the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).
  - eg, "https://*.dev.projectcatalyst.io".
- `aud`: The Audience of this token.
  This is the clients connection that will be authorized.
  It is their public-facing IP address.
  It is taken *VERBATIM* from the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).
  This claim *DOES NOT* follow [RFC8392] and is not a URI.
  This *MUST BE* the IPv4 or IPv6 address of the client who called the pre-auth endpoint.
  - eg, `"183.89.53.100"` or `"2345:0425:2CA1::0567:5673:23b5"`.
- `exp`: When this token will expire.
  This time can be chosen by the dApp.
  It **CAN NOT** expire after the `exp` claim in the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).
- `nbf`: This claim is *NOT USED* in the client auth token, and will not be present.
- `iat`: The date/time the client issued this token.
  It **CAN NOT** be before the `iat` claim in the [Service Pre Auth Token](#service-pre-auth-token).

The payload is formatted according to [RFC8392] before signing.

The dApp will pass this payload data as binary data to the wallet.
It uses [CIP-30 api.signData()][CIP30-SignData] to sign the payload.
The claims MUST be signed with the Stake Address key the client used to register on the Cardano network.

Note: *This function signs data according to [CIP-08 Signing Spec][CIP08].
This will result in a valid [CWT][RFC8392] being created.*

### Authorization Error

How authorization errors are reported is undefined in this specification.
They are to be documented by the system using this authorization standard, along with the means to recover.

## Registration Flow

```kroki-mermaid on white
{{#template ./registration_flow.mmd}}
```

## Authorization Flow

```kroki-mermaid on white
{{#template ./authorization_flow.mmd}}
```

## Security Concerns and Mitigations

### Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

#### REST API's

All `GET`, `HEAD` and `OPTIONS` methods in HTTP are safe, provided there is no possibility to change state with these methods.
The [Client Auth Token](#client-auth-token) is included in these requests, and only the authorized client can view the responses.
The attacker has no access to the data in these responses.

`POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH`, and `DELETE` methods must include an `anti-csrf-token` in the headers of the request.

The `anti-csrf-token` is calculated per message sent.
It is the [BLAKE3] `keyed_hash` of a random 256-bit key value chosen in the client's browser session and the [Client Auth Token](#client-auth-token).
It is formatted:
`anti-csrf-token: <base64_url(key):base64_url(hash)>`

The `anti-csrf-token` can be calculated when the signed [Client Auth Token](#client-auth-token) is first received from the wallet.
It can then be stored in either the DOM or Javascript Variable, but must NEVER be stored in a Cookie or Browser Local Storage.

In a CSRF attack, the attacker does not have access to either the [Client Auth Token](#client-auth-token) or the `anti-csrf-token`.
The attacker also can not guess the random key used to calculate the keyed hash of the [Client Auth Token](#client-auth-token).
Therefore a request not validly made by the client will not include the `anti-csrf-token` and will fail validation in the server.

The server can then validate the `anti-csrf-token` is correct for the [Client](#client-auth-token).

#### Websocket API's

The Websocket will be initiated with an HTTP GET.
In this case, the WebSocket initiating HTTP Get will allow a hijacked session to authenticate.
Therefore, the WebSocket initiating connection must also include the `anti-csrf-token` header as defined above.

[JWT]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519
[RFC8392]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8392
[BASE64URL]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648#section-5
[CIP30-SignData]: https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip30/#apisigndataaddraddresspayloadbytespromisedatasignature
[CIP08]: https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0008/CIP-0008.md
[BLAKE3]: https://github.com/BLAKE3-team/BLAKE3
